i tried to do something intelligent for garbage, following real infrastructure and cause for war. but as a video game it doesn't need to "follow logic", you just need a room with a guitar, a shotgun and a gas mask, corridors with piping, valves and fuse boxes. garbage has themes of shit and themes of beauty in shit. take eye divine which i consider the coolest game ever. disarmament is the continuation of garbage but with real world infrastructure. instead of a retro future garbage moon these are bunkers, service tunnels and real world infrastructure.

if you can't find a shell for your break-action you will need to look harder! because armed guys are coming through that linear section. the best thing you can do at this point is hide.

> the setting is poorly explained. there is talk of an ignited atmosphere. what has really happened is not very concrete anymore.

i don't think i can fit the america vs russia theme. how do i keep the artefact hunt alive when the sewer is the only thing that exists? never mind artifacts try staying alive in this impossible impromptu world.

> ditch the ussr vs american operatives theme and accept factions

> factions would fit the punk theme

(you'd think a crazy game like this would write itself but it won't)

i want a slow-paced tunnel-based game with high detail with the emphasis on survival

tunnels can be pretty and the sewer labyrynth is no exception, but the point of creating this game and the level design is that it makes sense, not to wow the user, but to lend to real world infrastructure.

(the level art you want is not the infrastructure you deserve)

stealing exo armed dudes from stalcraft seems almost obvious. there's just no argument for being nimble. armor could look like raiders in fallout, could be leathery like stalker, or be more militant like metro.

what ultimately makes the most sense is what the level calls for. when i make a comprehensive sewer with several maintenance tunnels turned into bunkers, that tells the story of garbage. but if the underground twists and turns into highway tunnels, depots, warehouses and mile-long service tunnels it would be unreasonable because the distance between underground infrastructure is massive in the real world.

a real world scale would be boring. tunnels would be very long and not usually connect to other networks. there would be overlap and no place where they would meet. if you look at real world geography, how many highway tunnels do you think are in the way of other infrastructure?

an underground labyrynth of infrastructure would make sense in industrial areas. there would be runoff, flood tunnels, service tunnels, enlarged sewers, underground caches, warehouses or depots of sorts.

pretty sure metro makes everything seem like a service tunnel. pipes carrying water and cables for electricity. fuse boxes and electrical units everywhere. but after wading through the two-hundreth maintenance section you feel like there is no point to the world.

so whenever you do a level it has to have a point. a base on a moon or an asteroid. maybe the industrial area nearby a river. but the whole game has got to take place there. what makes more sense is to have the main veins of the game be flood tunnels or some unfinished transportation tunnels. but now you need the game to explain this to the player who doesn't want to wrap their brain around your dumb theme.

so your indie game and its dumb levels require a dumb explanations for why they are dumb so your users can understand it better.